Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A.  Programing language is a set of instructions that solve the problem.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A.JAVA DEVELOPMENT KIT(JDK): CONTAINS JRE, JAVAC, JVM, JAR
JRE: JAVA RUNTIME ENVIRONMENT OR RUNTIME INTERPRETOR
JAVAC: JAVA COMPILER
JVM: JAVA VIRTUAL MACHINE
JAR: JAVA ARCHIVE

What is IDE?
A. IDE is an integrated development environment is used for developing purpose as text editor, debug and run the source code.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A.There are so many IDEs available in the market such as Eclipse,  Intellij, Clion, CodeBlocks, NetBeans etc.

Explain the entire java life cycle.
Source code - >compile ->byte code> jvm->interpreter -.> execute by operating system

what is class?
Class is a blueprint of an Object.

What is object?
Object is an instance of a class.

What is the entry point of an application?
Main method is an entry point of an application.

Why main is static?
Main method is static because can be access without creation of an object.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Object is the superclass of all classes in java.

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
PATH is an environment variable which is used to locate JDK binaries like "java" or "javac" command used to run java program and compile java source file.

CLASSPATH, an environment variable is used by System locate and load compile Java bytecodes stored in the

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?


Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
Interface is 100 percent abstract. all methods are abstract.
Abstract class is partial abstract. it has both concrete and abstract methods.

what is Access Specifier?
A. These Specifiers determine whether a field or method in a class,
    can be used or by another method or  another class or sub-class.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
 A. OOP:OBJECT ORIENTED PROGRAMMING LANGUAGE
    abstraction -IMPLEMENTATION HIDING
    interface: ROAD MAP OF A CLASS
    encapsulation: DATA HIDING
    polymorphism:  MANY FORM OF AN OBJECT

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A.Package in Java is a mechanism to encapsulate a group of classes, sub packages and interfaces.
 lang package is imported by default.

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
Application Programming Interface. math ,database and Gui.

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
NO,y because it leads Method overriding extended same class and same method name.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
Same method name but different parameter is called method overloading. it happens in compile time.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
Some potential errors might occurs in runtime is called exception. using try catch block we can handle
exception.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
Static keyword in java which identifies it is class-based .
it can be accessed without creating the instance of a Class. Using class name then dot operator to access
fields and methods.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
Final variable means you can't assign with new value in it.
A variable is declared with final keyword, its value can't be modified, essentially, a constant.
Final methods cant be overloaded or overriding.

What is final,firnally and finalize?
Final is a keyword is used for restrictions on class, method and variable.
Finally block use after try-catch block.
Finalize is used to perform clean up processing just before object is garbage collected.

What is a constructor ?
constructor refers to a block of code which is used to initialize an object.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
YES.

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
Default constructor

What is "this" keyword in java ?
this keyword is used to refer the current class

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?

super keyword use to invoke super class method, variable and constructor in sub class.
super can be used to refer immediate parent class instance variable.
super can be used to invoke immediate parent class method.
super() can be used to invoke immediate parent class constructor.

What is JVM stand for ?
 JVM:Java Virtual Machine

Is JVM platform independent?
YES , IT IS.

What version of java are you using?
java version "1.8.0_181"

What is JAR stand for ?
Java Archive

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?

JDK is Java Developer Kit, the JDK is what you need to compile Java source code.
JVM is Java Virtual Machine, the JVM actually runs Java bytecode.


What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
JVM: is Java Virtual Machine, the JVM actually runs Java bytecode.JVM is the content.
JRE: is the container, Java Runtime Environment contains JVM, class libraries, and other supporting files.


What is compile time and run time?

Compile time refers to either the operations performed by a compiler.
 Runtime is when a program is running or being executable.

What is heap?
Pool of memory.

How java manage it's memory?
using stack and heap.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
string: is immutable class
StringBuffer:is mutable class, two threads can't call the methods of StringBuffer simultaneously.
StringBuilder:is mutable class, two threads can call the methods of StringBuilder simultaneously.

What is Singleton class?
Singleton class is a class that can have only one object  at a time.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Serialization is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byte stream.
Deserialization is the reverse process where the byte stream is used to recreate the actual Java object in memory.

when to use transient variable in java?
A transient variable is a variable that can not be serialized.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
while() pretest loop
do...while() post test, at least one time execute


What is Enum?
An enum is a special "class" that represents a group of constants unchangeable variables, like final variables.

What is Iterator?

Iterator is an interface provided by collection framework to sequential access of items in the collection.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
It take same amount of memory.

Why is String Immutable in Java?
The string is Immutable in Java because String objects are cached in String pool. .

What is constructor chaining in Java?
Constructor chaining is the process of calling one constructor from another constructor.


The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
 a serial collector is a default copying collector which uses only one Garbage Collector thread for the GC operation,
 while a parallel collector uses multiple Garbage Collector threads.

What is JIT stands for?
Just In Time.

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Java objects reside in an area called the heap. The heap is created when the
JVM starts up and may increase or decrease in size.
When the heap becomes full, garbage is collected. During the garbage collection objects that
are no longer used are cleared, thus making space for new objects.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
yes.

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
stack memory is used to store local variables and function call
while heap memory is used to store objects in Java.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
Java Reflection makes it possible to inspect classes, interfaces, fields and methods at runtime,
without knowing the names of the classes, methods etc. at compile time.

what is multithreading in java?
Multithreading in Java is a process of executing multiple threads simultaneously.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
Synchronization in Java guarantees that no two threads can execute at a time.

What is Framework?
 Frameworks can be defined as the bodies of pre-written code to which you are allowed
to add your own code for solving a domain-specific problem.

What are the testing Framework available in java?
JUnit anf TestNG.

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
jUnit: not group test, does not do Parameterized object test
testNG:group test,do Parameterized object test

What are the dependencies for this project?
When a class makes an instance of another class
then that class is said to have dependency on another class.

what is dependency injection in java?
dependency injection is a technique whereby one object
(or static method) supplies the dependencies of another object.

What is static binding and dynamic binding?

static binding : compile time binding, early binding, method overloading

Dynamic binding:runtime  binding, late binding, method overriding







